[EUA]
Hmm...
The game is in your favor.
The pieces all seem
to move in accordance
with your will.
And it's barely begun.
Rika could never imagine
how much suffering
I still have in store for her.
Heh.
And after having
once escaped the cycle,
the pain of being ensnared again
in her century of tragedy
makes it more bitter still.
The cat's mind is entangled.
Each loop, yet another burr
in the snare tearing
at her psyche.
What a great gift
you offered me.
Thank you, Eua.
Your power has
given me the wherewithal
to force my dear,
stubborn Rika to submit.
[EUA chuckles]
You hardly need to thank me.
What I have vested
in you is a trifle next
to what I gain from your antics,
an escape from boredom,
which I so detest.
I won't pretend I understand
just what it is you find
so entertaining about me,
but I'm glad you're having fun.
[EUA]
Hmm...
Child of man, do not forget
this most important fact.
In casting the die,
you bound yourself
to see this game through
to its conclusion.
It's already begun,
and you can no longer withdraw.
As long as you continue
to follow the cat in death,
so, too, shall you
follow her consciousness
into the next
fragment without fail.
However, should you happen
to precede the cat in death,
and therefore, be expelled
from a fragment before her.
You would find yourself
thrust into a world
wherein the knowledge you've
gained would serve you little,
for in that fragment,
your quarry would
never be born at all.
Have you any objection
to these conditions?
I would hardly make
such a careless mistake.
[EUA chcukles]
Of course not, naturally.
‐‐[RIKA] Too close.
‐‐[HANYUU gasps] I'm sorry!
I suppose you're not in the mood
to give me an "au au," then?
No, don't worry about it.
That would be a poor use of
the time we've been granted.
Let's try and make this
a constructive discussion.
Though, regardless,
the fact that I'm here tells us
that a tragedy has occurred.
There's nothing to be
gained by forcing yourself
to carry on through the pain.
Give yourself a moment to rest.
Of course.
If you can promise
it will lead me
to a world free of tragedy,
I'll gladly lie here in
silence with my eyes shut.
Or perhaps you mean
to rescue me yourself.
Is that it, Lord Oyashiro?
[HANYUU]
I'm sorry.
[RIKA] I still don't
know what I did wrong.
What else could I have done?
When Keiichi won
that doll at the game shop,
I said he should give it to Mion
as a present and he listened,
but that didn't change anything!
He still snuck into the
ritual toolshed with Shion,
and Kimiyoshi still
went missing in the night!
[HANYUU] Rika.
Your killer in that world‐‐
Shion, I think.
But you know quite well
that the power I bear
has been compromised.
So, I have no way of
knowing for certain.
Please, calm down and
consider what you do know.
Even if you're unable
to remember the hours
before your death,
there may be some hint
in the memories you have!
[RIKA]
I don't want to.
Rika.
[RIKA] I'm so tired
of seeing people die.
I keep losing my friends and
all the people I grew up with.
[RIKA] And I‐I'm sorry,
but I'm tired of dying, too.
[SATOKO]
Rika?
Is something the matter?
[RIKA]
Oh. It's nothing. I'm fine.
I had this awful dream
before I woke up,
and I needed a
moment to shake it off.
Really, I'm okay! Ni‐pa!
That face tells
a different story.
[sobs]
[RIKA]
Satoko!
I don't understand
why it keeps happening!
How many times
do I have to do this?!
[sobs]
If your nightmares are
causing this much pain,
perhaps there's more to them.
It could be that your dreams
bear some deeper message.
A message? What does that mean?
And why? From who?
Well, if I had to guess,
a divine being.
Say, one like Lord Oyashiro.
After all, he is the guardian
deity of Hinamizawa.
If you've been
having nightmares,
then maybe he's trying
to tell you something
too important to risk
letting it go unnoticed.
By making me suffer endlessly?
What could I learn from
being tormented like this?
I certainly couldn't
answer that question.
But you do know that
Lord Oyashiro isn't an evil god.
All he wants is
for us to be happy.
Surely, he's trying
to show you how.
[RIKA]
But why do it like this?
Why make it so
hard to understand?
I'm trying,
but no matter what I do,
the nightmares always
seem to drag me in again.
It won't stop!
[SATOKO]
Hey, Rika?
I have a question for you,
and I need you to
give me an honest answer.
Have you done, or said,
or even thought of anything
that could have made
Lord Oyashiro angry?
Does anything at
all come to mind?
No. Nothing.
I've always been
a good priestess.
You liar.
Did you just say something?
You're lying.
I've heard you say
things in your sleep.
"I'd do anything to be
free of this hick village.
I wish I could escape to
the Saint Fancy‐Name Academy
for Young Ladies,
like I've always dreamed of."
But one of
Lord Oyashiro's rules states
that villagers are never to
abandon Hinamizawa, doesn't it?
You're his priestess, too.
You should take
that rule to heart.
[RIKA]
All of that is ancient history!
People go to Okinomiya
and back every day.
We're allowed to travel!
[SATOKO] I promise I won't
tell anyone your answer.
So be honest with me.
Have you really been harboring
such a blasphemous wish?
How can having a certain school
I wanna go to be blasphemy?
That's not fair!
Am I not even allowed to dream?
You're his priestess;
his servant in the mortal world.
You're the very incarnation
of Oyashiro on Earth.
I don't care! It's wrong!
I never chose that for myself,
so why do I have to suffer?
It was decided
before I was born!
Then tell me.
What makes you wish
you could leave Hinamizawa?
I know you can still
appreciate its beauty,
especially on a day
with such fair weather.
And this village has been
our constant companion
for our entire lives.
We've played in its rivers,
walked between its fields,
looked down upon it
from the mountaintops,
and from the moment
we were born,
Hinamizawa and its
people have been here
to protect and nurture us.
But you still grew tired
of your "quaint hometown."
And I think,
if I were Lord Oyashiro,
it would hurt me
to see my priestess show
so little regard for the gifts
I had shared with her.
So, then, perhaps
these nightmares
are a way of punishing you.
What does he want me to do?
Try and clear your mind.
Think back on
your time in Hinamizawa,
to all the good memories
you've made here.
You might even remember
some you had forgotten.
And if you do that.
I'm sure you won't
suffer any more nightmares.
[RIKA]
I'm so sorry.
You've gone through
hard times here,
just like I have but I was
so caught up in my own pain.
All is forgiven.
Getting to share this moment
with my dearest friend
in the village
I love is enough, Rika.
Satoko. Thank you.
[BOY A]
C'mon!
[BOY B]
You got this!
There's only two outs.
It's not over yet!
But this is the
last chance we'll get.
We were absolutely
smoking these guys,
but that pitcher has turned
the whole game around.
You looked
so cool out there, Mi.
You hit home runs to
both left and right field!
Though even making contact
with the ball is enough
to look cooler than Satoko.
Oh, really?
You'd better get ready
to eat those words, Rika.
Mii.
Safe!
Hell yeah!
Yay! You can do it, Satoko!
All right.
Time to hit this homerun
and seal the deal!
How's Satoko's batting
been so far today?
Let me think.
She struck out every time.
[RIKA]
She swung hard,
but her bat was this
far away from the ball!
Right. That's her game.
[RENA]
Over here, Keiichi!
Satoko, it's gonna be okay.
Someone's here to save the day!
Oh, my.
What exactly
did you expect to do
with that thing
out here, Keiichi?
Nice swing!
Don't even need
to run the bases!
[chortles]
Hooray, we won!
Why did you even
bother calling me?
[KAMEDA]
Damn it all!
A perfect trap.
All you have to do
is play it cool,
and your opponent
will never realize
what's happening
until it's over!
That's the ballgame.
Now, you remember
our deal, right?
Wow. You guys got here early!
You've finally decided
to join us, I see!
You could've been a bit later.
Then I would've gotten
to eat all of your meat.
That's too bad for you,
'cause I've got a
big‐time reach advantage.
I can get to the choice cuts
before you're in range.
You're kidding
yourself if you believe
I'm just gonna let you
get away with that!
Oh, calm down.
I'll leave plenty of bell
peppers and eggplants for you.
And if that's not enough,
I'll make sure you have
all the roasted squash
you could ever ask for!
You wouldn't!
I'd better let Coach know.
I'm gonna tell him
how much you love squash.
He would go on
a cross‐country tour
and buy up all
the squash in Japan!
[KEIICHI]
Wouldn't that be nice, Satoko?
Nothing but squash
for breakfast, lunch,
and dinner, every day!
[sobs]
Rena!
They're being mean to me!
Wait, if you go crying
to Rena, she'll‐‐
[RENA]
Awoo!
Stop that right now, Keiichi!
I won't let you be
mean to Satoko!
'Cause she's mine and
I'm taking her home with me!
Hey, Rena, we're not done yet!
Mion and Rika are
trying to act like
they weren't in on it, too!
[chuckles]
[BOY E] You can let me
take care of all these.
Might I ask for a favor?
Huh?
[KEIICHI]
Rika.
Mii?
You seen Satoko around?
I think she left early to go
and get groceries for dinner.
[KEIICHI]
Did she?
That's convenient.
It must be nice to
ditch clean‐up duty!
Satoko is really clever
and can think on her feet.
Unlike you, Keiichi. Ni‐pa!
All right, all right,
that gave me everything I need!
Ron!
Man, I stepped in that one!
But still this thing's not over.
[SATOKO] Actually, I believe I
myself have a double ron, here.
Huh?
A yakuman?
[chuckles] You and little Satoko
have been wiping the floor
with us all day!
[FRIEND B]
Yeah, that one‐two punch
at the end sealed the deal.
Hell yeah, Satoko!
We really cleaned
house together!
Sorry 'bout that.
Thanks, kid!
The girl's turnin' into a real
killer at the mahjong table!
She could have what it takes
to go pro someday, no joke!
[TEPPEI] Yeah,
you better believe my niece
has what it takes!
She's cute as a button,
but she's sharp enough to
beat anyone at their own game!
[laughter]
[FRIEND A]
How 'bout another round?
It's been fun, but we're
gonna have to call it there.
Huh? For real? This early?
You never close out
while the sun's up.
I gotta take Satoko back to her
place before it gets dark out.
No way I'm having
her walk home at night.
If anything ever
happened to that girl...
‐‐Uhhh...
[FRIEND A]
You sure have changed, Tecchan.
They do say nothing changes
a man like a woman, right?
[FRIEND B]
I never would have guessed
the woman would
be so tiny, though.
That little lady right there
is the only family
I got left in this world.
I had to change.
I couldn't keep being
the man I was before.
If it came to it, I'd be
willing to die for Satoko.
Hell, I buy it!
Honestly, I'm likin'
this new Tecchan!
Thanks a lot for takin'
the time to come and visit me.
[SATOKO]
If I hadn't, your apartment
would've gradually
turned back into a landfill.
All the time I spent cleaning it
would have been thrown away.
[TEPPEI]
Hmmm...
Sorry.
It's the first time I've had to
take care of a place on my own.
[SATOKO] It looks like you've
hardly touched your winnings
from the horse race, Uncle.
I expected worse.
[TEPPEI] I only take out
as much as I need to get by,
I'm not gonna go
throwing that money away.
'Cause, hey,
if things go bad someday
and I gotta check out early,
I wanna leave you something
to help you get by.
[SATOKO]
Uncle Teppei?
When you said you would be
willing to die for me,
did you mean that?
Uh... You wouldn't
have to ask me twice!
If there's anything
I can do for you,
I'm ready to lay down
my life to make it happen!
[SATOKO] Then do you think
you could come live with me
in Hinamizawa?
Huh?
I've been having
a bit of a problem,
and I could really
use your help with it.
It shouldn't take this long
to pick up groceries.
So, what did you
need my help with?
Can you tell me yet?
Sorry.
I know you haven't
lived in this house
for a pretty good
while at this point.
I guess that makes sense.
Wouldn't want the folks
in the village
realizing you're out here.
What the hell
are you lookin' at?!
[GARDENER]
Uh. Nothing!
[TEPPEI]
C'mon, Satoko. Get inside.
Okay. Uncle Teppei.
Thank you for scaring them away.
I can't stand the way
they stare at me.
[TEPPEI] No one's gonna
stare at you in here.
Or hear you, either.
[SATOKO]
Uncle.
The truth is, recently,
I've been horribly bullied.
[gasps]
I want names! Who is it?!
Tell me and I'll fix it!
Tell me so I can
beat their heads in!
[SATOKO]
Wait.
Why the hell would I wait?!
Tell me who's comin'
after you and I swear!
I'll shut it down!
But it's not
just a single person.
It's all the people
in Hinamizawa.
What? All of 'em?
If you were to beat up
one or two people,
the rest of the village
would only use it
as a justification to
treat me even more terribly.
Why would they do that to you?
[SATOKO]
You know why.
My parents were the leaders
of the pro‐dam movement,
and I'm being punished
in their place.
[TEPPEI]
That was all my brother!
You weren't part of that mess!
You were still just a little kid
when the whole
dam war went down!
[SATOKO] But I'm a Hojo,
which makes me an enemy.
And when there's an enemy,
the whole village
unites against them.
That's the way things
are done in Hinamizawa.
The only thing I want is a
quiet life here in the village.
I want us all to get along
but I don't think that's what
anybody in the village wants.
'Cause I'm their enemy.
They don't wanna be
neighbors with a Hojo.
They just wanna
throw rocks at me!
[TEPPEI] Please...
Please forgive me, Satoko!
I never had any idea you
were going through this!
[sobs]
I'm ashamed I wasn't
around to protect you.
I'm so sorry!
[SATOKO]
It's okay.
You're not the one to blame
for any of it, Uncle.
All I'll ask.
Is that you move in here
with me for a little while.
[SATOKO]
I get so tired sometimes,
but if I had family
waiting at home,
it might not be so hard
to get through the day.
Satoko!
[EUA chuckles]
You've chosen
to seek your pleasure
by soaking in the pity
of those around you, I see!
[VILLAGER A]
Teppei Hojo's back in town?
[VILLAGER B]
Yeah, someone spotted him
outside the family's old house.
[VILLAGER C] The man's
a good‐for‐nothin' thug.
What's he doing back
in Hinamizawa now?
[VILLAGER B] Crossed the
wrong person in Okinomiya
and had to skip town, I bet,
so we're stuck with him!
[VILLAGER C] We gotta let
the mayor know about this.
You think Oryo would step in?
[VILLAGER A]
The worst part is,
poor Satoko's
gotta deal with him.
[SATOKO chuckles]
[RIKA]
Huh?
[chuckles]
Satoko!
You had me worried.
Let's hurry up and start dinner!
Rika, wait.
I only came here to get
all my things packed up.
My uncle has returned,
and I'm going to be
moving back in with him.
[EUA laughs]
How distraught
the cat must be feeling!
[laughs]
My goodness, the two of you
are so very entertaining.
[RIKA] Next time:
"Tatariakashi‐hen, Part 2."